Today's text and comments highlight two subjects.
One, a very important event.
Two, a very important quality.
The event is Armageddon.
The quality is obedience.
So let's consider these questions.
What will take place before Armageddon?
How do we benefit now from being obedient?
And what is the link between Armageddon and obedience?
Let's start with the subject of Armageddon.
What are some of the events that are taking place shortly
before the start of Armageddon?
Now, as explained in the Pure Worship book chapter 18,
after the destruction of all false religious organizations,
we, as God's servants, worldwide,
may be used by Jehovah to proclaim a final and hard-hitting
judgment message.
That message may announce that the political system
is about to end.
Not surprisingly, the kings of the earth
will not take that kindly.
Ezekiel chapter 38 describes that these kings
will attack us in their role as God of Maygok.
Now, since we, as God's people,
live in many different countries, these kings
will need to work together across national borders
in order to attack us all at the same time.
To do so, they have to combine or coalesce their efforts.
And that is why, in our current publications,
God of Maygok is described as a combination
or coalition of nations.
Now, who among God's people will be attacked by God of Maygok?
Will the remaining anointed Christians still be on earth
and also be attacked?
The July issue of the watchtower, if 2015, stated this.
Shortly before the remaining ones of the 144,000
are taken to heaven, God will attack God's people.
Thus, according to this watchtower,
the nations will attack us while the anointed Christians
are still on earth.
Now, where does the Bible confirm that statement?
At Ezekiel chapter 38 verse 16, speaking about God of Maygok,
the prophecy states, like clouds covering the land,
you will come against my people Israel.
Now, as our publications have long explained,
Israel here refers to spiritual Israel.
So indeed, the remnant of spiritual Israel,
including the brothers on the governing body at that time,
will be with us when this coalition attacks us.
Now, having these faithful brothers at our site
will certainly give us an added measure of inner calmness
and peace that will help us to get through the initial face
of the attack of that fierce coalition of nations.
But then, at some point, during the attack by God of Maygok,
Jesus will send out His angels together
all the remaining spiritual Israelites worldwide,
and they will be raised to heaven.
That event will mean a big change for us on earth.
We will face our enemies without the anointed brothers
at our site.
Yet, even so, according to Luke 21 verse 28,
we will stand up straight and lift up our heads.
Now, why will we not fear?
Because we know that the departure of the anointed ones
for heaven indicates that our rescue is imminent.
Jesus and the angels and the 144,000 brothers of Christ
will form the heavenly army that comes to deliver us
from the coalition of nation.
Now, just think about the emotions that the anointed ones
will feel for us as they come to our rescue.
Many of the anointed have developed personal friendships
with us.
They serve together with us here at Bethel
and in the congregations where we had the privilege
of supporting them in various ways.
We can just imagine how happy they will be
when they follow Jesus to deliver us.
At that moment, they will have both the authority
and the power to defend those on earth
who supported them so loyally during their trials
while they were on earth.
No wonder that our text for today comes
from a watchtower article with the title Armageddon
is good news.
Yes, it is good news for all those who served Jehovah
in heaven and on earth.
Let us now consider our second subject,
the quality of obedience.
Recently, we received a letter from the personnel committee
about the subject of obedience.
Speaking about the lessons we have learned
during the lockdown, the letter stated,
perhaps the greatest thing we have learned
is the importance of obedience.
In this, you dear brothers and sisters
have set an outstanding example.
And that same warm commendation applies
to all faithful brothers and sisters worldwide.
As God's servants, we are obedient from the heart
as we read at Romans 6, 17.
What does that mean?
We are obedient because we love Jehovah.
How have we benefited from the instructions
that we receive from Jehovah's organization?
A married couple in this country
said, following the directions we received
gave us peace of mind, a sister in the Philippines said,
being obedient gives me freeness of speech
when I teach my Bible students and give advice to my friends.
And a brother in Peru said,
I feel now better prepared to be obedient
to instructions yet to come.
Well, you will agree that these expressions reflect
how we all feel about the benefits of showing obedience.
Our obedience also influences
unbelieving family members.
Here's an example.
A sister in the United States has been serving Jehovah
for over 45 years.
But during all these years,
her husband did not show interest.
However, during the pandemic,
he noticed the loving care that the congregation
was showing to his family.
And out of appreciation,
the husband began to attend
the congregation Zoom meetings.
There, he often heard announcements from Bethel
about taking safety measures to avoid getting the virus
and he could see how obeying
that direction safeguarded the congregation.
Then one day, a non-witness relative told him,
let's go out together.
The husband replied,
I am doing nothing until Bethel says we can go.
Imagine how happy the sister was
when she heard her husband's reply.
Her son said, my dad is 83 years old,
but there is still hope for him.
Now our final question.
What is the link between Armageddon and obedience?
Now, James chapter three for 17 helps us to find the answer.
There, we read that we need to be ready to obey.
Now the expression ready to obey
is a translation of a Greek word that is mentioned only one time
in the entire New World translation here at James 317.
A person who is ready to obey
is quick to change his opinion
when he is presented with facts that correct his thinking.
It is someone who is known for his willingness
to get along with others.
Now interestingly, in the first century,
the same Greek word was also used in a military setting.
Bible scholars mentioned that Flavius Josephus,
the Jewish historian, used that same word
to describe obedient soldiers in the Roman army.
In fact, Josephus wrote that one of the reasons
why the Roman army was so successful was
that the soldiers were well trained ready to obey.
Now how does that apply to us?
Well, of course, we do not use literal weapons
as soldiers do still.
There is a similarity between those Roman soldiers
in the past and us today.
We too have to be well trained and ready to obey.
Why?
Because the obedience that we develop today
will help us to obey life-saving instructions
that we will receive from God's organization in the future.
When the nations attack us
and the war of Armageddon follows,
showing obedience will be our protection.
So what were the main points of our brief discussion?
Shortly before Armageddon,
we will face the attack of a coalition of nations.
Today's circumstances allow us to train ourselves
in being obedient.
And as Armageddon comes closer,
we will be protected as long as we are ready to obey.